
Online banking is an electronic payment system that enables customers of a financial institution to conduct financial transactions on a website operated by the institution, such as a retail bank, virtual bank, credit union or building society. Online banking is also referred as internet banking, e-banking, virtual banking and by other terms.
Internet banking is a product of e-commerce in the field of banking and financial services. In what can be described as business to customer domain for banking industry, Internet bankingoffers different online services like balance enquiry, balance transfer, opening account etc. Mostly, these are traditional services offered through internet as a newdelivery channel.
Banks are also offering payment services on the behalf of their customers whoshop in different e-shops, e-malls etc. Further, different banks have different levels of suchservices offered, starting from level-1 where only information is disseminated through internetto level-3 where online transactions are put through.
To access a financial institution's online banking facility, a customer with Internet access would need to register with the institution for the service, and set up a password and other credentials for customer verification. The credentials for online banking is normally not the same as for telephone banking. Financial institutions now routinely allocate customers numbers, whether or not customers have indicated an intention to access their online banking facility. Customers' numbers are normally not the same as account numbers, because a number of customer accounts can be linked to the one customer number. The customer number can be linked to any account that the customer controls, such as cheque, savings, loan, credit card and other accounts.
To access online banking, a customer visits the financial institution's secure website, and enters the online banking facility using the customer number and credentials previously setup. Online banking services usually include viewing and downloading balances and statements, and may include the ability to initiate payments, transfers and other transactions, as well as interacting with the bank in other ways.
